Source document: SC_I_01_2026.pdf

UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM
Sales Instruction No. U-01/2026

From
Chief Engineer/Commercial,
UHBVN, Panchkula.

To
All CEs (OP)/SEs (OP)/XENs (OP)/SDOs (OP),
JE-I Incharge Sub office in UHBVNL.

Memo No: -Ch-21/XEN/CBO/MIS-302/CE/C-I
Dated: - 15 .01.2026

Subject: Electricity Supply Code - Regulation No. 29/2014 and amendment
thereof (S.C. No. U-02/2020) - Provisional billing shall not continue
for more than two billing cycles at a stretch.

The Electricity Supply Code - Regulation No. 29/2014 and amendment
thereof (S.C. No. U-02/2020) has provided that provisional billing shall not continue for
more than two billing cycles at a stretch. The relevant clause is as under:-
5.4.6 In case, for any reason, the meter is not read during a
billing cycle, the licensee shall prepare a provisional bill in the
manner as prescribed under Regulation 6.9. Such provisional
billing shall not continue for more than two billing cycles at a
stretch.

However, it has been observed that the said direction of the Hon'ble
Commission has not been followed meticulously. Hon'ble Haryana Right to Service
Commission has taken concern in this regard. So to comply with the Regulation of
Hon'ble Commission as well as Haryana Right to Service Commission directions, the
following SoP has been prepared:-
To ensure that provisional billing is restricted to a maximum of two billing
cycles, as mandated under Clause 5.4.6 of the HERC Supply Code Regulations, the
following measures shall be taken: -
(I) Preparatory /cooling period

A preparatory period shall be allowed to the field offices for streamlining
processes, identifying long-pending provisional billing cases, and
preparing action plans for timely clearance.
(i) For pending cases greater than 6 billing cycles, the same would be
cleared within 1 month of notification of this policy,
(ii) For pending cases greater than 3 billing cycles and less than 6 billing
cycles, the same would be cleared within 2 months of notification of
this policy,
(iii) For pending cases greater than 2 billing cycles and less than 3 billing
cycles, the same would be cleared within 3 months of notification of
this policy,
(iv) After 31.03.2026, there would not be any consumer on provisional
billing more than 2 billing cycles. Also during this period, every

(II) Procedure for Handling Provisional Billing Cases Beyond Two Billing Cycles

(i) After completion the preparatory period, all provisional billing cases pending for more than two billing cycles shall be examined monthly by the Commercial Assistant (CA) - Designated Officer (DO) the service under the RTS Act, at the sub-division level. The DO shall compile and submit the report to the Sub-Divisional Officer by the 15th of the following month. The monthly report shall clearly specify the reasons for provisional billing in each case that exceeds two billing cycles, along with the current status and action taken.

(ii) Review by FGRA (SDO Operations): The First Grievance Redressal Authority (FGRA) i.e. SDO (Operations), shall review the report, verify the reasons, incorporate necessary amendments, and confirm its accuracy within 15 days. Thereafter, the confirmed report shall be forwarded to the Second Grievance Redressal Authority (SGRA) i.e. XEN/Operations.

(iii) Decision by SGRA (XEN Operations): The SGRA shall examine each case and take a decision within 15 days, following due procedure, including giving an opportunity of hearing to the concerned meter reading agency, employee, or consumer, as applicable. The SGRA shall decide the cases as under: (a) Cases where the fault lies with the Meter Reading Agency:
• Penalty shall be imposed and recovered as per the provisions of the existing contract.
• For future contracts, the CBO office shall incorporate a clear provision for consumer compensation in such cases. (b) Cases where the delay is attributable to negligence of the employee:
• Upon concluding negligence, the SGRA shall exercise the powers vested under the RTS Act (S.C. No. U-10/2025, Sr. No.16 i.e. redressal of consumer complaint regarding billing i.e. non-receipt, wrong bill etc.) to levy penalty on the Designated Officer (DO).
• The SGRA shall also award compensation to the affected consumer, as provided under the RTS Act (S.C. No. U-08/2017 dated 07.02.2017, clause 9 (1) to (4) is reproduced as under:

“9.(1) Where the Second Grievances Redressal Authority is of the opinion that the Designated Officer and/ or any other official involved in the process of

providing such service has failed to provide
service without sufficient and reasonable cause .
it may impose a lump sum penalty on the
Designated Officer and / or any other official
involved in the process of providing such service,
which shall not be less than two hundred fifty
rupees and not more than five thousand rupees
in each case.

(2) Where the Second Grievance Redressal Authority
is of the opinion that the Designated Officer and/
or any official involved in the process of providing
such service has/ have caused under delay in
providing the service, it may impose a penalty up
to the rate of two hundred and fifty rupees per day
for such delay on the Designated Officer and/ or
any official involved in the process of providing
such services, which shall not be more than five
thousand rupees in each case.

Provided that the Designated Officer and/ or any
other official involved in the process of providing
such service shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard before any penalty is
imposed under sub- sections (1) and (2).

(3) The Second Grievance Redressal Authority may,
be an order, give as compensation an amount
to one thousand rupees to the appellant to be
paid by the Designated Officer or any other official
as the case may be.

(4) The Second Grievances Redressal Authority may,
if it is satisfied that the Designated Officer and/
or any other official involved in the process of
providing such service has/ have failed to
discharge the duties assigned under this Act
without sufficient and reasonable cause,
recommend the disciplinary action against the
defaulters under the service rules applicable to
them in addition to the penalty imposed under
sub - section (1)."

(III) Online Portal Facility
To ensure transparency, timely monitoring, and accountability in handling
provisional billing cases beyond two billing cycles, the following online
system shall be implemented:

• Automatic MIS Generation:
An online module shall be developed in the CBO office, where
a system-generated MIS will automatically list all provisional
billing cases pending beyond two billing cycles at the end of
each month.
For each listed case, the Designated Officer (DO) / Commercial
Assistant (CA) shall enter the specific reasons for provisional
billing in the portal. These reasons must be consistent with
and duly approved by the FGRA.

• Recording of SGRA’s Final Decision:
The SGRA shall record the final decision in the same online
module, after due examination and hearing, similar to the
mechanism followed on the Auto Appeal Portal. This will
ensure end-to-end digital tracking, accountability, and
disposal of cases within prescribed timelines.

(IV) Also, in cases of erroneous/disputed bills, the procedure defined in the
HERC Supply Code Regulation (S.C. No. U-02/2020, clause 6.10) may also
be followed. The relevant clause is as under: -

6.10 Erroneous / Disputed Bills
6.10.1 In case a consumer does not agree with the amount billed
(barring cases of theft of electricity, unauthorized use of
electricity and where the consumer is found at fault for
damage to meter and apparatus), he shall lodge a
complaint in this regard and deposit under protest –

(a) an amount equal to the sum claimed from him, or
(b) the electricity charges due from him for each month
calculated on the basis of average charge for electricity
paid by him during the preceding six months,

whichever is less, pending disposal of any dispute
between the consumer and the licensee.

6.10.2 On review of the complaint, if the licensee finds that the
consumer has paid any excess amount, such excess
amount along with the interest at saving bank rate of
State Bank of India as on the 1st of April of the financial
year shall be adjusted in the subsequent bill(s).

Provided that in case the amount to be refunded exceeds
the electricity charges due for next 6 months calculated
on the basis of average consumption for previous 6
months, such excess amount shall be refunded through
cheque.

6.10.3 If the licensee finds the bill to be correct, the consumer
shall be intimated accordingly to pay the balance
amount, if any, with surcharge on such balance for
delayed payment from the due date, if applicable.

6.10.4 If the licensee establishes during review or otherwise or
as a result of audit observation that a consumer has been
under-charged, a 15 days notice shall be served upon the
consumer to enable him to contest the demand. However,
in case of additional demand being made out by internal
audit in respect of any consumer, the office concerned
shall satisfy himself in the matter before giving notice to
the consumer. After receipt of reply from the consumer,
the licensee shall review the amount charged after taking
into account the facts submitted by the consumer. For the
amount which is chargeable, after considering reply of
the consumer, the licensee shall recover the amount
without levy of surcharge from the consumer by issuing
a separate bill and in such cases at least 30 days shall
be given to the consumer to pay the bill. In case the
consumer fails to pay the bill by the due date, he shall be

liable to pay, in addition, surcharge for the period of
delay.

6.10.5 While issuing bill under Regulation 6.10.4, the
licensee
(a) shall specify the amount to be recovered with an
explanation and breakup for the amount.
(b) shall not charge interest on the undercharged amount if
paid within 30 days.
(c) on the request of the consumer shall allow installment
option.
i) If the amount charged is less than average amount
chargeable for two billing cycles - two installments.
ii) If the amount charged is more than average amount
chargeable for two billing cycles but less than four billing
cycles - three installments.
iii) If the amount charged is more than average amount
chargeable for four billing cycles but less than six billing
cycles - four installments.
iv) If the amount charged is more than average amount
chargeable for six billing cycles and above - five
installments.
These installments shall be calculated without adding
any interest or surcharge.
However, if any installment is delayed there will be
surcharge on it.

6.10.6 While communicating the decision on the review of the
bill, the licensee shall advise the consumer in writing his
right to prefer an appeal against the decision of the
licensee to Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum.
The above instructions should be brought to the notice of all concerned for
careful and meticulous compliance with immediate effect.

          (Deepak Popli)
          Chief Engineer/Commercial,
          UHBVN, Panchkula

UBHVN web site address: www.uhbvn.org.in
e-mail address: ecommercial@uhbvn.org.in, secommercial@uhbvn.org.in
Endst. No. C-21/XEN/CBO/MIS-302/CE/C-I
Dated:  15.01.2026

Copy of the above is forwarded to the following:-
1. SPS to Additional Chief Secretary (Energy), Govt. of Haryana.
2. SPS to Chairman, HPU.
3. SPS to MD, UHBVN, Panchkula.
4. SPS to MD, HPYNL, Panchkula.
5. SPS to MD, HPGCL, Panchkula.
6. Pr. /Vigilance, UHBVN, Panchkula.
7. SPS to Director (Op)/Director (Proj)/Director (Fin.) in UHBVN & DHBVN.
8. Secretary, HERC, Bays No.33-36, Sector-4, Panchkula – 134112 (Haryana)
9. CE/Comm., UHBVN, Hisar.
10. CE/PD&C UHBVN, Panchkula.
11. CE/ M, UHBVN, Panchkula.
12. CE/HPPC, Panchkula.
13. CE/ IT, UHBVN, Panchkula.
14. Company Secretary, UHBVN, Panchkula.
15. Chief Electrical Inspector, Govt. of Haryana Sector-17, Chandigarh.
16. SE/Monitoring, UHBVN, Panchkula.
17. SE/Commercial, UHBVN, Hisar.
18. CE/Admin., UHBVN, Panchkula.
19. CE/ SO, UHBVN, Panchkula
20. SE/ workshop and store UHBVN Dhulkote (Ambala)
21. SE/RA, UHBVN, Panchkula.
22. SE/Const. Circle, UHBVN Panchkula.
23. SE (M&P), UHBVN Dhulkote ( Ambala ).
24. SE/ R-APDRP, UHBVN, Panchkula.
25. Legal Remembrancer, HVPNL, Panchkula.
26. F.A/HO, UHBVN, Panchkula.
27. Chief Auditor, UHBVN, Panchkula & Rohtak.
28. Senior Accounts Officer, UHBVN, Panchkula.
29. Chairman, GRGF, Kurukshetra.
30. XI XEN, UHBVN, Panchkula.
31. Deputy Secy. (Technical), UHBVN, Panchkula.
32. Deputy Secy. (Project), UHBVN, Panchkula
33. Deputy Secy. (OP), HVPN, Panchkula.
34. All XEN's (M&P) in UHBVN.
35. Principal Accountant General (Audit) Haryana (Report Section), Chandigarh (e-mail: sracoca@gmail.com).
36. CPCO, UHBVN, Panchkula.
37. PHD Chamber of Commerce & Ind. PHD Khel Gaon Road, New Delhi-16.
38. Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries O/O VPS Agro Ind. (P) Ltd., Dhawanit Basawan Railway Road, Kurukshetra.
39. The Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Dist.Unit Panchkula), 239, Industrial Area,
    Phase-I, Panchkula-134113
40. Chief Coordinator IG & Director of Industries of Haryana, 30 Bays Building, Sector-17, Chandigarh.
41. Y.Nagar-Jagadhri Chamber of Commerce and Indl. C/O the Oriental Engg. Works (P) Ltd., Indl. Area,
    Y.Nagar, Haryana- 136001.
42. General Secretary, Panchkula Residents Welfare Federation, H.No. 984, Sector-16, Panchkula.
43. President Haryana Rice Millers & Dealers Association, Ladwa (Kurukshetra.)
44. Haryana Chamber of Commerce Ltd. C/O M/s Liberty Enterprises Railway Road, Karnal.
45. Confederation of Indian Industries, Sector-31, Chandigarh.
46. President Manufacturing Association, Sonepat.
47. Director, Industries Association, Yamunanagar
48. Citizen Welfare Association (UE) Regd. Kothi No.508, Sector-15, Panchkula.
49. Haryana Solvent Extractor's Association O/O Pee-Pee Agro Industry, Pvt. Ltd., Dhurkhera Hisar Road,
    Ambala.
50. President, Faridabad Industrial Association Bata Chowk Industrial Area, Faridabad.121001.
51. Secretary, Ambala Electrical Dealers & Manufacturers Association, 872, URBAN ESTATE, Sector -7,
    Ambala City.
52. The Engineers Club (Regd.), Haryana Zone, 260, Subhash Nagar, Rohtak-124001.
53. President Karnal Agricultural Implements Manufacturers Association, C/o Karnal Agriculture
    Industries Ltd. Sham Nagar, GT Road, Karnal-132 001.
54. All Billing Agencies NIELT centre, Hattron and HCL (T)

Executive Engineer/Comm.
UHBVN, Panchkula.