Source document: SC_I_03_2026.pdf

UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM

Sales Instruction No. U-03/2026

From
Chief Engineer/Commercial,
UHBVN, Panchkula.

To
All CEs (OP)/SEs (OP)/XENs (OP)/SDOs (OP),
JE-I Incharge Sub office in UHBVNL.

Memo No: Ch- 30/SS-429/SAOP/CE/C-I
Dated: 17.03.2026

Subject: Utilization of allocated Budget for State Awareness & Outreach Plan (SAOP) for PMSG: MBY.

The Government of India has launched the PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana (PMSG: MBY) on 13th February 2024 to increase the share of solar rooftop capacity and empower residential households to generate their own electricity by installing Rooftop Solar plants on their roofs. The scheme aims at installing 1 Crore Rooftop Solar Plants PAN India & has an outlay of Rs 75,021 crore and is to be implemented till FY 2026-27.

Awareness & Outreach is a component under the scheme, wherein a budget of Rs. 75 lacs (for every Financial Year) have been allocated to UHBVN for promotion of the scheme through IEC activities (Guidelines copy attached). As such, the said budget has been aggregated to Rs. 2.25 cr. upto FY 2026-27 as previous budget remains unutilized and accordingly has been carried forward to next financial year, which will lapse by 31.03.2027. The necessary instructions for utilizing above funds along with authorisation of officers of the cadre to incur expenditure is as detailed below:-

Sr.  Nature of                To whom                Delegation                Expenditure        Remarks
No.  Power                    delegated              in rupees                Limit
1.   Radio Advertisement      WTDS                  Full Power             1,50,000          Maximum
     - Development of radio   CE/Commercial        (single event)        budget allocated
     jingles and broadcast                                                  Rs. 20 lakh.
     on radio channels.

2.   Newspaper-              As per existing DOP in relation to PRO wing
     Advertisement in        Maximum budget allocated
     prominent Hindi and    Rs. 25 lakh.
     English Newspapers.

3.   Awareness & Training    WTDS                  Full Power             1,50,000          Maximum
     Workshops- Hiring of    CE/OP                (single event), Max.  ceiling upto
     hotel/conference hall    Rs. 3 lakhs.        Rs. 50 lakh.
     and other general
     arrangements
     including banners and
     branding materials
     (including Vendors,
     consumer & Discom
     Officials)

Sr.  Nature of        To whom         Delegation         Expenditure        Remarks
No.  Power            delegated       in rupees          Limit
1.   XEN/OP          25,000          (single            Budget to each
                     event), Max.    office             circle will be
                     ceiling upto    allocated by the
                     Rs. 75,000/-    office of
                                     CE/Commercial.
                                     Any office(SDOs/
                                     XENs) before
                                     making any
                                     expenditure will
                                     get the amount
                                     allocated from
                                     concerned SE
                                     office so that
                                     the expenditure
                                     may be restricted
                                     to budget allocated
                                     to that circle.
                                     CE/OP will
                                     intimate the
                                     amount to the
                                     concerned SE/OP.

4.   Surya Rath-     CE/OP           1,00,000          (single            Maximum budget
     Deployment of   (single         event), Max.      allocated Rs. 25
     solar-themed    event), Max.    ceiling upto      lakh
     mobile vans     ceiling upto    Rs. 4 lakhs.
     ("Surya Rath")  Rs. 75,000/-
     equipped with
     branding,
     loudspeaker
     system, and
     one field
     executive for
     consumer
     awareness and
     on-site
     assistance
     registration on
     the PM
     Surya Ghar
     (PMSG-MBY)
     portal.

5.   Pamphlets,      SE/OP           50,000           (single            Maximum budget
     Banners &       (single         event) Max.      allocated Rs. 60
     Hoardings-      event) Max.    ceiling upto      lakh
     Promotional      ceiling upto    Rs. 1 lakhs
     activities      Rs. 50,000/-    XEN/OP
     like pamphlet                   20,000
     distribution,                   (single
     banners &                      event) Max.
     hoardings,                      ceiling upto
     advertisement                   Rs. 50,000/-.
     on discom
     vehicles,
     hoardings with
     digital display.

6.   Awareness       CE/OP           Above            (single            Budget to each
     camps for       25,000          (single          event) Max.      circle will be
     promoting       (single         event) Max.     ceiling upto      allocated by the
     PMSG like in    event) Max.    ceiling upto     Rs. 1 lakhs.     office of
     colleges/       Rs. 50,000/-    SE/OP           25,000           CE/Commercial.
     schools/RWAs                    (single         (single           Any office
     /Solar Melas                   event) Max.     event) Max.      (SDOs/XENs/
                                     ceiling upto     ceiling upto     CEs) before
                                     Rs. 50,000/-    Rs. 25,000/-    making any
                                     XEN             10,000          expenditure will
                                     (single         (single         get the amount
                                     event) Max.    event) Max.     allocated from
                                     ceiling upto    ceiling upto    concerned SE
                                     Rs. 25,000/-    Rs. 15,000/-.   office so that
                                                       Budget to each   the expenditure
                                                       circle will be   may be restricted
                                                       allocated by     to budget allocated
                                                       the office of    to that circle.
                                                       CE/Commercial.

Sr.  Nature of      To whom        Delegation      Expenditure      Remarks
No.  Power          delegated      in rupees       Limit

1.   concerned      SE             office so that   the expenditure   may be restricted to budget allocated to that circle.

Note:
• Printing shall be carried out as per the rates approved by DIPR.
• Photographs and hoardings shall be displayed strictly as per the approved size (length and width) and specifications by DIPR.
• Expenditure shall be incurred in accordance with the DoP and shall be strictly restricted to the budget allocated to each Circle under the scheme by the office of CE (Commercial).
• All the activities at sr. no. 1-6, have been allocated a total budget of Rs. 2.25 crore, which is valid up to 31.03.2027. MNRE has sanctioned a budget of Rs. 75 lakh for each financial year starting from FY 2024-25 onward under PMSG: MBY, which cumulatively amounts to Rs. 2.25 crore up to FY 2026-27.

Note: - A fund of Rs. 59.27 Lacs has been disbursed from MNRE under this component of the scheme which has been already allocated to each OP Circles vide this office memo no. Ch-24/SS-429/SAOP/CE/RE dated 12.01.2026. Remaining funds will also been intimated to each OP Circles by this office after disbursal of same from MNRE.

The above Sales Instructions shall remain applicable till the PMSG: MBY scheme remains in operation.

The above instructions should be brought to the notice of all concerned for careful and meticulous compliance with immediate effect.

DA:- As above

                              Chief Engineer/Commercial
                              UHBVN, Panchkula

F.no. 318/140/2024- GCRT- Part (2)
Government of India
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy
Rooftop Solar Division
***
Atal Akshay Urja Bhawan
Lodhi Road, New Delhi 110003,
Dated: 6th October, 2025

Office Memorandum

Subject: Amendment in Guidelines for Implementation of PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana for the component of "Awareness and Outreach"-reg.

This refers to OM No. 318/17/2024- GCRT (part-7) dated 19.07.2024 regarding notification of Operational Guidelines for Implementation of PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana (PMSG: MBY) for the component "Awareness and Outreach". In order to streamline and expedite the approval process, the undersigned is directed to issue following amendment in the aforementioned Guidelines:

Para  Existing clause                                                                                  Amended clause
4 f)   An Awareness and Outreach Committee under the chairmanship of Committee under the chairmanship of
       Mission Director, PM Surya Ghar: Muft Mission Director, PM Surya Ghar: Muft
       Bijli Yojana shall convene meetings Bijli Yojana shall convene meetings
       regularly to assess the NAOP, DAOPs regularly to assess the NAOP, DAOPs
       and SAOPs submitted for consideration. and SAOPs submitted for consideration.
       The Committee shall either decline order duly examination and
       approve the proposed modifications in recommendation by the NPIA. The
       the respective Action Plans along with Committee shall either decline or
       the budgetary envelope for the Plan, and approve the proposed modifications in
       this shall be considered to be the the respective Action Plans along with
       approval/rejection of MNRE. The other the budgetary envelope for the Plan, and
       members of the committee shall this shall be considered to be the
       include:                                                                                     approval/rejection of MNRE. The other
                                                                                                   members of the committee shall include:
       (i) Representative of the NPIA                                                      (i) ED, REC representing NPIA
       (ii) Representative of National Film                                               (ii) Representative of Central Bureau of
       Development Corporation (NFDC)                                                  Communication (CBC) in the rank of
                                                                                                   minimum DS/Director
       (iii) Representative of Rooftop Solar                                            (iii) Representative of Rooftop Solar
       Division in MNRE                                                                    Division in MNRE [Director/DS or
                                                                                                   equivalent]
       (iv) Representative of IFD Division,                                             (iv) Representative of IFD Division,
       MNRE                                                                                     MNRE [Director/DS or equivalent]

Para  Existing clause                                                                 Amended clause
(v)   Representative of I&PA division,                                              (v) Representative of I&PA division,
      MNRE                                                                        MNRE [Director/DS or equivalent]
(vi)  Representative of SIA (in case of                                           The representative from the concerned
      approval of Awareness and Outreach                                           State Implementing Agency and Central
      plan of respective state SIA)                                               Ministry/Department will be invited to
                                                                                   the meetings as a special invitee if the
(vii) Representative of the respective                                            proposal relates to that specific State,
      Department/Ministry (in case of                                            Ministry, or Department.
      approval of Awareness and Outreach
      plan of respective Department/Ministry
      in Government of India)

2. This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.

(Ashish Batham)
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India
ashish.batham@nic.in

To:
1. ACS/Principal Secretaries/Secretaries (Renewable Energy/Energy/Power) of all
   States/UTs
2. CMDs/MDs of DISCOMs/State Nodal Agencies of all States/UTs
3. DG, Central Bureau of Communication
4. CMD, REC Ltd.

Internal Circulation:
i.  O/o Hon'ble Minister of New & Renewable Energy
ii. O/o Hon'ble Minister of State of New & Renewable Energy
iii. O/o Secretary, MNRE
iv. O/o JS (JVNS)
v.  O/o JS&FA, MNRE
vi. All vertical heads under PMSG
vii. MNRE Portal and National Portal for PM - Surya Ghar

No.: 318/17/2024-Grid Connected Rooftop (Part-7)
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy
Government of India
***
Atal Akshay Urja Bhawan
Lodhi Road, New Delhi-110003
Dated: 19.07.2024

Office Memorandum

Subject: Operational Guidelines for Implementation of Component "Awareness and Outreach"
under PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana.

This refers Ministry's order No. 318/17/2024-GCRT Division dated 16th March 2024 vide
which sanction was issued for the PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana, aimed at installing rooftop solar
plants in one crore households, with a total financial outlay of Rs. 75,021 crore.

2. The Operational Guidelines for Implementation of Component "Awareness and Outreach"
under PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana is enclosed.

3. This issues with the approval of competent authority.

(Divyanshu Jha)
Deputy Secretary
d.jha1989@ias.nic.in

To
1. ACS/Principal Secretaries/Secretaries (Renewable Energy/Energy/Power) of all States/ UTs
2. CMDs/MDs of Discoms/State Nodal Agencies of all States/UTs

Copy for information to:
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of New & Renewable Energy
2. PS to Hon'ble Minister of State of New and Renewable Energy
3. PPS to Secretary/AS/JS/JS&FA, MNRE
4. All Advisers & Group Heads
5. Director (NIC) for uploading on Ministry's website

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana

Awareness and Outreach

1) Background
a) The Government of India has approved the PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana on 29th February, 2024 to increase the share of solar rooftop capacity and empower residential households to generate their own electricity. The scheme has an outlay of Rs 75,021 crore and is to be implemented till FY 2026-27. The administrative approval was granted to the scheme vide Order No. 318/17/2024-Grid Connected Rooftop dated 16th March, 2024.

b) The Financial Outlay for the scheme includes a component on Awareness and outreach with a financial outlay of 1% of Scheme Component for Central Financial Assistance for Residential Consumers i.e. Rs 657 crore.

c) Installation of 1 crore rooftops in the residential sector would require creating awareness and disseminating information regarding the benefits available under PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana. Under the Awareness and Outreach component of the scheme, Ministry will utilize various channels for promotion, including public campaigns, such as social media, print media, television, Radio jingles, nukkad and door-to-door campaigns to make awareness about installation of Rooftop System (RTS), RTS registration and application process, knowledge dissemination on best practices followed and information dissemination to public regarding various components of the scheme.

2) Scope
a) These guidelines pertain to the implementation of the “Awareness & Outreach” Component of PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana, under the administrative approval granted on 16th March, 2024.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana

Awareness and Outreach
Page 1 of 9

b) The scope of these guidelines encompasses the framework for planning, developing,
and executing Awareness and outreach activities. These guidelines outline the process
by which requests for Awareness and Outreach plans from DISCOMs/State Nodal
Agency/ Ministry/ NPIA are received and evaluated by the Ministry of New and
Renewable Energy (MNRE), which will have the discretion to approve, modify, or
decline proposed activities.

3) Aims and Objectives
a) To create awareness among electricity consumers with focus on residential category
to take advantage of the scheme.

b) To motivate residential segment electricity consumers for taking active part in the
installation of PV System on their rooftops and to make them aware about each and
every part of the process involved in setting up rooftops solar system (RTS).

c) To communicate technical issues to consumers in a user-friendly manner in order to
enable them to make more informed choices regarding rooftop solar.

4) Implementation
a) The National Programme Implementing Agency (NPIA) shall be responsible for
implementation and monitoring of the Awareness and Outreach scheme component
for the scheme at the National Level. The State Implementation Agencies (SIAs) shall
be responsible for implementation and monitoring of the Awareness and Outreach
scheme component at the State Level.

b) The NPIA shall formulate the National Awareness and Outreach Plan for PM Surya
Ghar (NAOP-PMSG), with the approval of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. The
SIA shall formulate the State Awareness and Outreach Plan (SAOP), with the approval
of MNRE through NPIA.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 2 of 9

c) It is also envisaged that the PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana shall be promoted
through collaborative efforts with field level formations of various other Ministries at
the Central level as well as other Departments at the State level. This may include
dissemination of Awareness and Outreach materials through Self Help Groups and
other formations like Cooperatives. These Ministries ("Partner Ministries") shall also
be able to conduct their awareness and outreach activities through a Departmental
Awareness and Outreach Plan (DAOP). This will be treated on the same lines and under
the same framework as the NAOP. The Ministries shall also identify a Nodal
Implementation Agency (NIA) on their behalf that will be responsible for the
implementation of the DAOP, flow of funds from the Ministry/NPIA and for submission
of necessary reports to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy and the Mission
Directorate of the scheme as required.

d) The DISCOMs/ State Nodal Agencies/ interested Ministries shall submit their
respective Awareness and Outreach plans to the National Programme
Implementation Agency. The NPIA shall scrutinize the plans and associated cost with
the plans. NPIA may undertake necessary convergence activities at its level for NAOP,
DAOP and SAOP. The SAOP and DAOP shall be assessed by the NPIA before being
proposed to MNRE for approval.

e) NPIA shall, from time to time, submit detail Awareness and Outreach plan with budget
to the Awareness and Outreach Committee. NPIA shall list all the activities with
budgets to be carried out across different State level/ District level/ sub district level
for MNRE's approval.

f) An Awareness and Outreach Committee under the chairmanship of Mission Director,
PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana shall convene meetings regularly to assess the NAOP,
DAOPs and SAOPs submitted for consideration. The Committee shall either decline or
approve the proposed modifications in the respective Action Plans along with the
budgetary envelope for the Plan, and this shall be considered to be the
approval/rejection of MNRE. The other members of the committee shall include:

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 3 of 9

i) Representative of the NPIA
ii) Representative of National Film Development Corporation (NFDC)
iii) Representative of Rooftop Solar Division in MNRE
iv) Representative of IFD Division, MNRE
v) Representative of I&PA division, MNRE
vi) Representative of SIA (in case of approval of Awareness and Outreach plan of respective state SIA)
vii) Representative of the respective Department/Ministry (in case of approval of Awareness and Outreach plan of respective Department/Ministry in Government of India)

g) The Awareness and Outreach Committee shall scrutinize the plans and check for any deviation from the rates as established by the Central Bureau of Communications (CBC). The Awareness and Outreach Committee will consider the media plan (long term/short term and obtain the approval of Secretary (MNRE) for carrying out the activities. In respect of activities not covered under CBC approved rates i.e., non CBC items, an Internal Cost Committee in MNRE would evaluate the reasonability of rates.

h) The Awareness and Outreach Committee shall assign the undertaking of the Awareness and outreach activities to third party organizations (NFDC, DISCOM, SNA or any other external organization) at its own discretion. Preference shall be given to execute the media plan activities through CBC empaneled vendors at standard rates adopted by CBC.

i) The organization that is assigned with the Awareness and outreach related activities may establish different Awareness and outreach channels for the promotion of the PM Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana at state level and in regional languages.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 4 of 9

j) The DISCOMs/ State Nodal agencies/ interested Ministries shall only use branding and
Awareness and outreach material as permitted under PM Surya Ghar scheme by
MNRE. Any cobranding or variation in the usage of branding is subject to prior
approval of MNRE.

k) The National Programme Implementation Agency (NPIA) will be responsible for the
monitoring of the communication plans for various activities for conducting such
awareness activities for consumers. NPIA shall create a Awareness and outreach
activities calendar that can be monitored from time to time.

l) The organization assigned with the Awareness and outreach work shall adhere to the
budgetary limit assigned to them as per the Awareness and Outreach Plan.

m) The Implementing Agencies may propose modifications in the approved Action Plans
from time to time and the Committee may consider this modification requests in line
with these guidelines. The Implementing agencies shall submit regular status reports
to the Committee through NPIA, as and when required by the Committee.

5) Components of Awareness and outreach Plans
a) The Awareness and outreach Plans may, inter alia include the following major
components
i) Electronic Media Campaigns, which will include:

(1) Publicity on Television - Private Cable & Satellite with dubbing in official
regional languages.

(2) “Audio-visual spots” like Testimonial Videos, in show integrations with
national and regional Celebrities that would be shown on TV & social media.

(3) “Audio Spots/Jingles” broadcast through radio.

(4) Street theatre to promote desirable behaviour through street plays, folk songs
etc.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 5 of 9

(5) Talk shows, panel discussions and expert lectures on related issues on national
and regional channels.

(6) Radio Jingles on Private radio Stations and All India Radio Stations

(7) Any other electronic/digital media campaigns activities.

ii) Print media campaigns, which may include:
(1) Advertisement in newspapers and magazines (National/Regional).
(2) Coverage of events, success stories in newspapers (National/Regional).
(3) Publication of brochures, pamphlets, leaflets, flip charts, newsletter, etc.
highlighting the initiatives taken up by Ministry, schemes, technologies,
sources available at all levels.
(4) Printing and dispatch of e-tokens for sending to scheme beneficiaries through
Department of Post or any other channel.
(5) Hoardings and bus panel designs (National/Regional levels).
(6) FAQs booklet.
(7) Any other print media channels.

iii) Outdoor Publicity
(1) Preparation and putting up of digital display board, hoardings and banners at
public places viz. railway stations, bus stops, post offices, District
Administration Offices, on buses, bus stops, other public spaces etc. through
PR agencies and other bodies.
(2) Road shows, Nukkad Nataks to showcase green conscious living, flash mobs in
cities’ malls/prominent markets etc.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 6 of 9

(3) The Common Service Centers (CSCs) and other outreach partners such as
Department of Posts (through postal workers), Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Gas (through LPG dealer network) and Ministry of Youth Affairs
(through volunteers on MyBharat portal) shall conduct a door-to-door
campaigns to raise awareness and to generate applications on the national
portal.

(4) Urban Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions shall mobilize Institutions
at the State and district level for door-to-door campaigns.

iv) Publicity campaigns on Internet websites and mobile applications (apps)

(1) Publicity through Internet via advertisements on Meta, Twitter, LinkedIN,
Emailer etc. mediums through official account handle of the Ministry.

(2) Publicity through internet advertisements on websites.

(3) Bulk Mobile messages (SMS).

(4) Any other online publicity channels

v) Purchase of equipment/services

(1) Fee/expenses for hiring Technical and managerial consultants/experts to carry
out the above Awareness and outreach activities.

(2) Cost of procuring services rendered by Public Relations Agencies

vi) Other Relevant Activities

(1) Development of communication kit comprising of all Awareness and outreach
materials like posters, hoardings, Banner, slogans, SMS messages, informative
booklet, leaflets, audio-visual CDs, documentary films etc.

(2) Arrangements for coverage of conventions/events/press conference etc.

(3) Production of documentary on success stories and innovative practices and
showcasing it.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana

Awareness and Outreach

Page 7 of 9

(4) Promotion of scheme through coverage of conventions/ events/
conference/making of documentary films/success stories and sponsorship
activities for such conventions/events/conferences

(5) Conduct of Impact assessment of awareness activities undertaken under this
component

b) Branding on solar rooftop system
i) The Ministry may issue detailed directives pertaining to use of scheme-specific
branding and its display on installed rooftop solar system (on module, inverter or
other equipment used for installations). These directives shall be binding on the
vendor. Under these directives, only PM Surya Ghar Yojana scheme related
branding material duly approved by the Ministry shall be used. Any other branding
material (such as branding specified by state government in case the state
government is providing additional subsidy in convergence with PMSG:MBY) shall
be subject to prior approval from NPIA.

ii) The cost of implementation for the branding under such directive shall be under
the scope of vendor, and the complete cost shall be borne by the vendor.

6) Financial Outlay and Management
a) The total financial outlay of Awareness & Outreach component of the scheme is Rs
657 crore.

b) General Financial Rules (GFRs) would be followed while dealing with matters involving
public finances in respect of activities to be undertaken in para 5 of the guidelines.
Further, for all types of publicity purposes/rates, guidelines of Central Bureau of
Communication (CBC) and National Film Development Corporation Limited (NFDC)
shall be followed where available. Any deviation in this regard in cases of urgency or
short notice (up to a month) for incurring expenditure on account of conducting such
un-planned activities under Awareness and outreach would require prior approval of
Awareness and Outreach committee.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana
Awareness and Outreach
Page 8 of 9

c) After the approval of the relevant NAOP, SAOP or DAOP, the Implementing Agency may request for advances as per the extant norms of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (Ministry of I&B). In case of requests that may not fall within the remit of these extant norms, the releases shall be guided by the following

i) Advance release of up to 40% of the budget sanctioned for the Implementing Agency

ii) 60% of the budget to be released after completion of the activities, submission of activity reports, utilization certificates, and audited statement of expenditure.

d) Any advance to a privately owned DISCOM will be released after submission of bank guarantee of requisite amount.

e) The admissible CFA for conducting the Awareness and outreach programme e.g. National, International or State level by the implementing agency may be restricted as per the norms set by the I&PA/CBC.

f) The Implementing agency will remit the accrued interest and other charges to Consolidated Fund of India as per Rule-230(8) of GFRs 2017.

7) Monitoring

a) The NPIA shall monitor the implementation of the Awareness and outreach Plans in coordination with other Departments of Central Government and their Nodal Implementation agencies and SIAs. In particular, the NPIA shall regularly coordinate with Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and to track progress of Awareness and outreach related activities that have been approved by the Awareness and Outreach Committee as a part of the AOPs.

8) Amendment of Guidelines

a) MNRE may make necessary amendments in the scheme guidelines for Awareness & Outreach within the overall spirit of the Cabinet approval or issue any clarification to remove difficulties in the implementation of the scheme, as and when required, with the approval of Hon’ble Minister, New and Renewable Energy.

Guidelines for PM-Surya Ghar: Muft Bijli Yojana

Awareness and Outreach
Page 9 of 9

UHBVN web site address: www.uhbvn.org.in
E-mail address: secommercial@uhbvn.org.in, secommercial@uhbvn.org.in
Endst. No. Ch- 30 /SS-429/ CE/C-I
Dated: 17 .03.2026
Copy of the above is forwarded to the following:-
1. SPS to Additional Chief Secretary (Energy), Govt. of Haryana.
2. SPS to Chairman, HPU.
3. SPS to MD, UHBVN, Panchkula.
4. SPS to MD, DHBVN, Hisar.
5. SPS to MD, HVPNL, Panchkula.
6. SPS to MD, HPGCL, Panchkula.
7. Dir./Vigilance, HVPN, Panchkula.
8. SPS to Director (Proj)/Director (Fin.) in UHBVN & DHBVN.
9. Secretary, HERC, Bays No.33-36, Sector-4, Panchkula - 134112 (Haryana)
10. CE/Comm., DHBVN, Hisar.
11. CE/P&D, UHBVN, Panchkula.
12. CE/MM, UHBVN, Panchkula.
13. CE/HPPC, Panchkula.
14. CE/IT, UHBVN, Panchkula.
15. Company Secretary, UHBVN, Panchkula.
16. Chief Electrical Inspector, Govt. of Haryana Sector-17, Chandigarh.
17. SE/Monitoring, UHBVN, Panchkula.
18. SE/Commercial, DHBVN, Hisar.
19. CE/Admin., UHBVN, Panchkula.
20. CE/SO, UHBVN, Panchkula.
21. S.E / workshop and store UHBVN Dhulkote (Ambala)
22. SE/RA, UHBVN, Panchkula.
23. SE/Const. Circle, UHBVN Panchkula.
24. SE (M&P), UHBVN Dhulkote ( Ambala )
25. SE /ARPRD, UHBVN, Panchkula.
26. Legal Remembrancer, HVPNL, Panchkula.
27. A.F.A / HQ, UHBVN, Panchkula.
28. Chief Auditor, UHBVN, Panchkula & Rohtak.
29. Chief Accounts Officer, UHBVN, Panchkula.
30. Chairman, CGRF, Kurukshetra.
31. XEN/IT, UHBVN, Panchkula.
32. Deputy Secy. (Technical), UHBVN, Panchkula.
33. Deputy Secy. (Project), UHBVN, Panchkula.
34. Deputy Secy. (Op), UHBVN, Panchkula.
35. All XENs (M&P) in UHBVN.
36. Principal Accountant General (Audit) Haryana (Report Section), Chandigarh (e-mail: sracca@gmail.com).
37. CPRO, UHBVN, Panchkula.
38. PHD Chamber of Commerce & Ind. PHD Khel Gaon Road, New Delhi-16.
39. Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries O/O VPS Agro Oil Ind.(P) Ltd., Dhanwanti Bhawan Railway Road, Kurukshetra.
40. The Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Distt.Unit Panchkula), 239, Industrial Area, Phase-I, Panchkula-134113
41. Chief Coordinator IAG & Director of Industries of Haryana, 30 Bays Building, Sector-17, Chandigarh.
42. Y.Nagar-Jagadhari Chamber of Commerce and Ind. C/O the Oriental Engg. Works (P) Ltd., Indl. Area, Y.Nagar, Haryana- 136001.
43. General Secretary, Panchkula Residents Welfare Federation, H.No. 984, Sector-16, Panchkula.
44. President Haryana Rice Millers & Dealers Association, Ladwa (Kurukshetra).
45. Haryana Chamber of Commerce Ind. C/O M/s Liberty Enterprises Railway Road, Karnal.
46. Confederation of Indian Industries, Sector-31, Chandigarh.
47. President Manufacturing Association, Sonepat.
48. Director, Industries Association, Yamunanagar
49. Citizen Welfare Association (UE) Regd. Kothi No.508, Sector-15, Panchkula.
50. Haryana Solvent Extractors' Association O/o Pee-Pee Agro Industry, Pvt. Ltd., Dhurkhera Hisar Road, Ambala.
51. President, Faridabad Industrial Association Bata Chowk Industrial Area, Faridabad.121001.
52. Secretary, Ambala Electrical Dealers & Manufacturers Associate, 872, URBAN ESTATE, Sector -7, Ambala City.
53. The Engineers Club (Regd.), Haryana Zone, 260, Subhash Nagar, Rohtak-124001.
54. President Karnal Agricultural Implements Manufacturers Association, C/o Karnal Agriculture Industries Ltd. Shiam Nagar, GT Road, Karnal-132-001.
55. All Billing Agencies NIELT centre, Hartron and HCL (7)